content/newposts/data-stuff/20181106_triggeringAnalyticsViaServerlessFunctionsPart2.md, before:

+++
title = "Triggering analytics via Serverless Functions Part 2"
description = "Using Google Cloud Functions with Google Cloud Storage triggers to invoke analytics workloads"
tags = [
    "python",
    "google cloud",
]
date = "3018-01-01"
categories = [
    "python",
    "automation",
    "google cloud",
]
+++

This is a continuation of previous [blog post]({{< ref "20181106_triggeringAnalyticsViaServerlessFunctionsPart1.md" >}}).

To summarize the previous related blog post.

- Too painful to have people respond and react to report generation and compilation
- Too expensive to have machine lying around to pick up the slack and automate the reports; serverless solutions (pay on use) could be a useful model to use when running automated reports.
- Scenario presented for example purposes: 3 reports generated which are to be compiled to a single report. Previously mentioned 3 reports would be processed on the condition when the data files are dropped into the storage buckets. Event generated from it would automatically run the report

## Compilating reports

The next part of resolving our above mentioned situation (read previous blog post - part 1 for more details on this) is to compile the report. There are several ways to handle, each with their own advantages and drawbacks respectively. We would use the terms `subreport` to refer to reports for the initial set of reports that would then need to be compiled into a final `report`. These are just possible solutions; the combination of products that can be used to achieve the final goal of checking subreports and then compiling into the final report.

- Solution 1: On each time when a subreport is submitted and a check is run, we would run the function which would check the subreport. Afterwhich, we would then save the info that we checked the subreport into some sort of data storage (database). On each hour, we would run another function that would check the database; once all the subreports are ready, we would then do the compilation of the reports and then, we would be done for the day.

  - Issue: We would probably need to rely on another service: Google Cloud Scheduler (just released) which would maintain the cron schedule. That would trigger the google cloud function to run an hourly basis to check

- Solution 2: On each time when a subreport is submitted and a check is run, we would also run a check on the other subreports. Once they are all complete, we would then add a message on Google Pubsub. This would allow us to trigger another Google Cloud Function that would do the compilation of subreports which would then be used to generate the final report.
  - Issue: With the above method, we would need to recheck all subreports on each submission report. That would result in wasted computation where we would need to keep rechecking all subreports each time. It would ideal to store the information that some of the subreports have been checked to prevent computation from being wasted from checking data

Commit message:

blog: Add content on trigger analaytics via serverless functions part 2

content/newposts/data-stuff/20181106_triggeringAnalyticsViaServerlessFunctionsPart2.md, after:

+++
title = "Triggering analytics via Serverless Functions Part 2"
description = "Using Google Cloud Functions with Google Cloud Storage triggers to invoke analytics workloads"
tags = [
    "python",
    "google cloud",
]
date = "3018-01-01"
categories = [
    "python",
    "automation",
    "google cloud",
]
+++

This is a continuation of previous [blog post]({{< ref "20181106_triggeringAnalyticsViaServerlessFunctionsPart1.md" >}}).

To summarize the previous related blog post.

- Too painful to have people respond and react to report generation and compilation
- Too expensive to have machine lying around to pick up the slack and automate the reports; serverless solutions (pay on use) could be a useful model to use when running automated reports.
- Scenario presented for example purposes: 3 reports generated which are to be compiled to a single report. Previously mentioned 3 reports would be processed on the condition when the data files are dropped into the storage buckets. Event generated from it would automatically run the report

## Compilating reports

The next part of resolving our above mentioned situation (read previous blog post - part 1 for more details on this) is to compile the report. There are several ways to handle, each with their own advantages and drawbacks respectively. We would use the terms `subreport` to refer to reports for the initial set of reports that would then need to be compiled into a final `report`. These are just possible solutions; the combination of products that can be used to achieve the final goal of checking subreports and then compiling into the final report.

- Solution 1: On each time when a subreport is submitted and a check is run, we would run the function which would check the subreport. Afterwhich, we would then save the info that we checked the subreport into some sort of data storage (database). On each hour, we would run another function that would check the database; once all the subreports are ready, we would then do the compilation of the reports and then, we would be done for the day.

  - Issue: We would probably need to rely on another service: Google Cloud Scheduler (just released) which would maintain the cron schedule. That would trigger the google cloud function to run an hourly basis to check

- Solution 2: On each time when a subreport is submitted and a check is run, we would also run a check on the other subreports. Once they are all complete, we would then add a message on Google Pubsub. This would allow us to trigger another Google Cloud Function that would do the compilation of subreports which would then be used to generate the final report.
  - Issue: With the above method, we would need to recheck all subreports on each submission report. That would result in wasted computation where we would need to keep rechecking all subreports each time. It would ideal to store the information that some of the subreports have been checked to prevent computation from being wasted from checking the data.
  - Depending on sizes of the data that would be checked, that would result in increase of the amount of time needed to process the subreport which would inadvertably result in an increase in cost of running the automation. The whole point of going down the serverless route is to try to reduce the cost of the services to as low as possible.

The solution that is finally sort of picked (considering that google cloud schedule was not yet available when this was created) is the following. It is mixed of both solution 1 and solution 2 that was initially proposed above.

- On submission of each subreport into the Google Cloud Storage bucket, it would trigger a Google Cloud Function to run a check on the subreport.
- Once the check is complete and passes, it would store that information into Google Cloud Datastore (a database)
- The last bit of checking the subreport would be a check on the records on google cloud datastore for records for the day; Are subreports checked and have they all passed so that compilation can be done. If the checks are all good, a message is dropped on Google Pubsub which would then be used to trigger the Google Cloud Function to run the compilation function.
- The compilation function is triggered via a message on Google Cloud Pubsub, these would compile the report and then send the message to Slack or via email etc

The full source code for the above is available in the repo here:
https://github.com/hairizuanbinnoorazman/gcf-analytics/tree/941c813b3ebefdd0640c098447ba337d0902c034

Slides on this is available here:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1trt8SyQYSgUfx8AfHZ7Pt8_VzfIqEsJerpQYqhQ-MIw/edit
