content/posts/20180214_thingsToWatchOutForIn2018.md, before:

+++
title = "Things to watch out for in 2018"
description = ""
tags = [
    "golang",
    "python",
]
date = "2018-02-14"
categories = [
    "conferences",
]
+++

A list of conferences and meetups and exhibitions to look for especially in 2018:

This kind of personal list that I'm keeping track; it mainly revolves around Golang, 
modern architecture technologies e.g. Cloud technologies etc, Python and even R (One of my initial language, I still do keep a lookout of how it's doing nowadays.)

# Conferences

- RStudio Conference (January 2018)  
  Conference Details: https://www.rstudio.com/conference/  
  Materials: https://github.com/rstudio/rstudio-conf/tree/master/2018  
  Video Link: https://www.rstudio.com/resources/webinars/#rstudioconf2018  
- Fossasia Conference (March 2018)  
  Website: https://2018.fossasia.org/
  Video Link: https://engineers.sg/conference/fossasia-2018
- Vue Conference (March 2018)  
  Conference Site: http://us.vuejs.org/  
  Conference Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AiF3XOu02-0&list=PLJNLwTPak6dj-HOz4eFrKDJsJSZsgvWPs&index=1  
- Gophercon Singapore 2018 (May 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://2018.gophercon.sg/  
  Video Links: https://engineers.sg/conference/gopherconsg-2018  
- Kubecon + CloudNativecon 2018 Europe  
  Conference Link: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2018/  
  Conference Videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OUYTNywPk-s&list=PLj6h78yzYM2N8GdbjmhVU65KYm_68qBmo  
- Pycon US 2018 (May 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://us.pycon.org/2018/  
- Pycon APAC 2018  (May 2018)  
  https://pycon.sg/  
- Dockercon 2018 (June 2018)  
  https://2018.dockercon.com/
- UseR Conference (July 2018)  
  https://user2018.r-project.org/
- Google Cloud Next Conference (July 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/  
  Conference Sessions: https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions  
- Gophercon UK (August 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://www.golanguk.com/  
- Gophercon Denver - main (August 2018)  
  http://gophercon.com
- AWS Re:invent Conference (Usually in Nov-Dec)

Some Resources to follow to learn when the next conference will come:

https://frontendfront.com/conferences/
https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Conferences
https://www.python.org/events/

Commit message:

blog: Updated blog content to add an additional video links for pycon singapore conference

content/posts/20180214_thingsToWatchOutForIn2018.md, after:

+++
title = "Things to watch out for in 2018"
description = "A list of conferences that I personally keep at eye out for. Particularly conferences pertaining to Kubernetes, contianers, Golang"
tags = [
    "golang",
    "python",
]
date = "2018-02-14"
categories = [
    "conferences",
]
+++

A list of conferences and meetups and exhibitions to look for especially in 2018:

This kind of personal list that I'm keeping track; it mainly revolves around Golang, 
modern architecture technologies e.g. Cloud technologies etc, Python and even R (One of my initial language, I still do keep a lookout of how it's doing nowadays.)

# Conferences

- RStudio Conference (January 2018)  
  Conference Details: https://www.rstudio.com/conference/  
  Materials: https://github.com/rstudio/rstudio-conf/tree/master/2018  
  Video Link: https://www.rstudio.com/resources/webinars/#rstudioconf2018  
- Fossasia Conference (March 2018)  
  Website: https://2018.fossasia.org/
  Video Link: https://engineers.sg/conference/fossasia-2018
- Vue Conference (March 2018)  
  Conference Site: http://us.vuejs.org/  
  Conference Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AiF3XOu02-0&list=PLJNLwTPak6dj-HOz4eFrKDJsJSZsgvWPs&index=1  
- Gophercon Singapore 2018 (May 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://2018.gophercon.sg/  
  Video Links: https://engineers.sg/conference/gopherconsg-2018  
- Kubecon + CloudNativecon 2018 Europe  
  Conference Link: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2018/  
  Conference Videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OUYTNywPk-s&list=PLj6h78yzYM2N8GdbjmhVU65KYm_68qBmo  
- Pycon US 2018 (May 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://us.pycon.org/2018/  
  Video Links: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCsX05-2sVSH7Nx3zuk3NYuQ  
- Pycon APAC 2018  (May 2018)  
  https://pycon.sg/  
- Dockercon 2018 (June 2018)  
  https://2018.dockercon.com/
- UseR Conference (July 2018)  
  https://user2018.r-project.org/
- Google Cloud Next Conference (July 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/  
  Conference Sessions: https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions  
- Gophercon UK (August 2018)  
  Conference Link: https://www.golanguk.com/  
- Gophercon Denver - main (August 2018)  
  http://gophercon.com
- AWS Re:invent Conference (Usually in Nov-Dec)

Some Resources to follow to learn when the next conference will come:

https://frontendfront.com/conferences/
https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Conferences
https://www.python.org/events/
