content/posts/movingToHugo.md, before:

+++
title = "Opinion piece - Moving to Hugo"
description = ""
tags = [
    "static-sites",
]
date = "3000-01-20"
categories = [
    "static-sites",
]
image = ""
+++

After a long while being on some managed platform for writing blog posts, I decided
to move out of that into one which would require myself to manage things on my own.
A few reasons kind of came up which motivated such a decision:

## Blog posts being Code Centric

Blog post being too code-centric and all those managed platforms somehow managed to 
irritate me when it comes to creating them. 

I've tried a couple, Blogger (I'm guessing it's a Google product but somehow, I'm 
not feeling that polish there), Wordpress and Medium. Wordpress was nice but 
it gets pretty complicated when I wish to add more code centric material; it 
always requires myself to actually go in and adjust it on my own.

## Curiosity on this static file ecosystem

There has been somewhat a quiet rise in the number of static website generator applications
nowadays. Long time ago, Jekyll was a definite winner, its a solution that is always 
mentioned on Github whenever it came to the time to build a site to support the code you're
writing on Github.

However, nowadays, there is a growing number of tools available. One for which is Hugo which is
the one being used to write this blog right here.

Here are some of the others and their links:

- Hugo  
  https://gohugo.io/
- Jekyll (For all time's sake I guess?)  
  https://jekyllrb.com/
- Gatsby JS (Was laughing at that name. Kind of reminded me of a hair product brand which has a bunch of funny ads)  
  https://www.gatsbyjs.org/

## Additional Remarks

Note to my future self;  
Look at this link for a guide on how to style the blog posts...  
https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet

Commit message:

feat: Update - adding code snippet section to show code snippets in code base

content/posts/movingToHugo.md, after:

+++
title = "Opinion piece - Moving to Hugo"
description = ""
tags = [
    "static-sites",
]
date = "3000-01-20"
categories = [
    "static-sites",
]
image = ""
+++

After a long while being on some managed platform for writing blog posts, I decided
to move out of that into one which would require myself to manage things on my own.
A few reasons kind of came up which motivated such a decision:

## Blog posts being Code Centric

Blog post being too code-centric and all those managed platforms somehow managed to 
irritate me when it comes to creating them. 

I've tried a couple, e.g. Blogger (I'm guessing it's a Google product but somehow, I'm 
not feeling that polish there), Wordpress and Medium. Wordpress was nice but 
it gets pretty complicated when I wish to add more code centric material; it 
always requires myself to actually go in and adjust it on my own.

Seeing this, it kind of makes sense to just use markdown for my blogging. I don't need
any of those fancy features, styling and they may actually get in the way. As an example,
here is an example excerpt of some code snippets that we can actually write here.

It's just markdown, so if you write documentation for code projects or update code snippets
in Github issues, this is definitely down your alley...

A Golang snippet  
```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello World!")
}
```

## Curiosity on this static file ecosystem

There has been somewhat a quiet rise in the number of static website generator applications
nowadays. Long time ago, Jekyll was a definite winner, its a solution that is always 
mentioned on Github whenever it came to the time to build a site to support the code you're
writing on Github.

However, nowadays, there is a growing number of tools available. One for which is Hugo which is
the one being used to write this blog right here.

Here are some of the others that I'm kind of looking into and their links:

- Hugo  
  https://gohugo.io/
- Jekyll (For all time's sake I guess?)  
  https://jekyllrb.com/
- Gatsby JS (Was laughing at that name. Kind of reminded me of a hair product brand which has a bunch of funny ads)  
  https://www.gatsbyjs.org/

But you know, if none of them tickle your fancy, you can always refer to this list right here:  
https://www.staticgen.com/

## Additional Remarks

Note to my future self;  
Look at this link for a guide on how to style the blog posts...  
https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet

Also, when attempting to use code snippets, you would need to specify the language being used.
Not specifying would leave the code block as a yellow blob (somehting similar to code snippets in golang documentation site)
